There's life beyond the way.

As usual, Elisa was walking in a hurry through the stretch between the subway station and the building that she worked.
As she walked, she was organizing in your mind the tasks of the day, calculating the amount of time spent for each report, which arguments suited better each one, all of that to quickly convince your boss and avoid exhausting conversations. Lately, she realized he was looking in more detail at her analysis and was trying to stretch the conversation, abording topics apart from work, and such thing was making her uncomfortable. Elisa liked accuracy and quickness in your works, leaving behind the useless talks. Sometimes she congratulated herself on the creative solutions she had.	 
She has been at that job for a year and was following a strict routine. A walk from her apartment to the subway, then a short walk from the subway to the office, just over five hundred meters immersed in your thoughts. But that day, her routine was broken by two young men who grabbed her and took her to an alley, which she had never noticed. She wanted to scream, but her voice was silenced by a knife in her throat.
—  Stay still, not a peep!
Elisa obeyed. Terrified, she let herself be taken to a dark corner. While the boy with the knife was holding her down, the other was pulling out his bag. She closed her eyes. Though she feared for her life, at that moment, she remembered the sketches that were in there. She would have to redo everything if she lost them. Along with the fear came the irritation for that inconvenient situation.
He barely noticed when the knife boy was thrown violently against the wall, where he remained stunned. Then the other boy dropped his bag and ran away. She wanted to run, but her legs didn't obey.
— Lady, are you all right? Lady?
It took a minute to organize her thoughts again, and then she realized that a beggar was talking to her. The boy with the knife had recovered himself and had also run away.
— How? Oh, yeah, I'm fine...
Do not worry, they were just two strays. They will not bother you again.
— I... well, thank you. I didn't know those kinds of people were around here.
— There are everywhere, just waiting for an opportunity to grab someone.
The beggar took the bag off the floor and delivered it to her.
— That's it. It was just a scare. Go with God.
— Did you get hurt, mister? How can I repay you for your help?
— There is no need to do that. Stay in peace. I will also stay in peace here in my tiny place.
— I've never seen you around here.
— I live here for about five years. Always in this alley or there, in the square. It's my world. And you pass by me every day. It's been a year...
— How do you know? I've never really seen him.
— People like me are usually invisible. It's normal. But I watch people. Some I don't forget. It stays in memory.
— And why do you remember some?
— I don't know. Could be several things.
She returned to her usual calm, and as she no longer wanted to stand there talking to a beggar, she put her bag on her shoulder, straightened her clothes and hair with mechanics gestures. The beggar took the bag of trinkets that were leaning against a wall and left the alley. She left right after. She found the beggar just ahead, waiting for an opportunity to cross the street.
— Thank you one more time. Thank God you were there. And mister, you were right when you said that for one year I have been waking here. I just cannot understand how you still remember me.
— You always walk very seriously. You always seem worried about something. But sometimes you let a smile slip. You're very beautiful, and your smile is gorgeous. I like to watch the lady pass by, and when I see your smile, it lights up my day.
Finally, the traffic has subsided, and the beggar has crossed the street, going to settle in the square on the other side.
She didn't know what to do. Should she consider the beggar's compliment a boldness? But he had helped her. For one minute, she stood inside her thoughts. So she looked around.
And for the first time, he saw the square. The lawn, benches, gardens. One swing, slide, and jungle gym for the kids. And a lot of people. People are coming and going. On such a sunny day. The light was reflecting on the glass of the buildings as if it was a multicolor street. The noise of the cars harmonized with the chatter of the passers-by. She saw the path she took every day. There was life beyond the way. And life in abundance!
When she arrived at the gate of the building where she worked, she saw one couple saying goodbye passionately. And the boy's gaze reminded her of her boss. The same shy smile. She remembered the copier's boy who always offered her tea. The intern who had invited her to lunch the day before. But as always, she had no time. As always, Elisa avoided people. Just as she didn't see the beggar, she didn't see her own companions. Her "good morning" was the standard of courtesy, nothing more.
Elisa opened the office door, and there they were. This time she saw one by one, even the boss, with his shy smile. She felt embraced, and this time her "good morning" was accompanied by a spontaneous smile.
And it was a wonderful day...
